# **Malmo Task Learning**

This repository contains functionality used in conjunction with Microsoft's MalmoPlatform (https://github.com/Microsoft/malmo) to support research into companion AI in a Minecraft environment. Through the use of hierarchical task networks, the goal of this project is to get non-hardcoded agents to develop a plan and perform the same complex tasks as agents who were hardcoded with what to do in their environments. This pipeline is as follows:

Run a hardcoded mission --> Produce training data --> Train HTN --> Use HTN on non-hardcoded agent

## **Setup**

- First, ensure that you have a working build of Microsoft's MalmoPlatform. The repository for the Malmo project can be found [here](https://github.com/Microsoft/malmo). Ensure that the 'launchClient' program runs and successfully produces a Minecraft client.

- Clone this repository onto your local machine at any location.

## **Project Pipeline**

### **I. Running Hardcoded Missions**

Hardcoded mission scripts designed for untrained agents are denoted by the '.mission' and '.UT' portions of the file name. All missions require two instances of the MalmoPlatform Minecraft client to be running. Executing one of these scripts will produce an execution trace log useful for training an HTN, as well as a statistical data file for each Agent. A mission can be ran like so:

    python3 malmo-task-learning/lib/<mission>

If you would like to run a single mission any number of times in a repeated fashion, you can also use the following command:

    python malmo-task-learning/lib/Run.py <mission> <# times>

### **II. Cleaning Up Execution Traces**

Running the same mission several times will produce corresponding execution trace files in the logs/ directory. Due to occasional tolerance and timing issues when using the MalmoPlatform, these files must undergo post-processing before being used for training. To process all files in the logs/ directory, run the following command:

    python malmo-task-learning/lib/ProcessLogs.py

### **III. Train a Hierarchical Task Network**

With the execution trace files from step 2, an HTN can be trained to recognize the environment of a mission and dynamically generate a plan of actions for an agent acting in that environment.

### **IV. Test the Trained Hierarchical Task Network**

After training the HTN in step 3 for a particular mission, the corresponding mission with filename extension '.T' can be ran. The agent for this mission is not hardcoded, and is relying on action plans generated by the HTN in order to select which action to perform. Similarly to step 1, these missions can be ran like so:

    python malmo-task-learning/lib/<mission>

### **V. Evaluate Performance**

In order to better assess how well a hardcoded or non-hardcoded agent performed, statistical information on each agent is automatically output in CSV format to the stats/ directory after each mission run. This can be read as plain text, or can be modeled by running the following command:

    python malmo-task-learning/lib/Stats.py <CSV filename>

Running this script will ask the user for all of the attributes they wish to plot against the time that the mission ran for.

### **VI. Testing Against Humans**

In order to evaluate a trained agent against a human player, a copy of each mission is provided with the filename extension '.H', to denote that it is a human-playable version of the mission. Statistical data will still be collected for the human-controlled agent in these missions, which can then be used in the Stats script as mentioned in the section **'V. Evaluate Performance'**.